---
layout: post
title: "On Inequality"
date: 2020-06-08
---

How do I view the inequality situation in America? What do I believe needs to change?

## Where I Stand

My name's Carson. I'm white. I'm furious about the events that have transpired around my home and school in Minneapolis. I'm frustrated that it had to come to this for black voices to be heard in America after decades of pointless silence. Regardless, I am hopeful that my generation will be the ones to push for better social policies to benefit us all. I want to make this known to add more discourse to the conversation. To show that this whole problem goes deeper than the police. To show that during my education, I took a couple things away about inequality and its racist origins. 

I hope it doesn't sound like pandering. I hope that this is another voice of support and more importantly, a resolution to act where I can.

I'm sorry to say that I'm not doing more, that I'm not out in protests, that I'm not helping to clean up the street, that I'm not screaming my lungs out to push for change. I'm sorry that I'm scared right now. I'm sorry that the fear I feel now about walking through the streets, about the police is something that black families and communities have been struggling since this country's inception. I want to say that I get it, that I understand the depth of your problems, but I'm afraid that I don't know that I ever will. I, nor anyone in my family, has been a victim of racial discrimination, of the acts of racist individuals, of militant policing. That's not something to be sorry of, nobody would wish to be the targets of discrimination and persecution that our nation's people of color have been forced to face for centuries. It's something to be aware of is a cause of a long history of unfair treatment between people based solely on the color of their skin. I hope to continue to strive so that each of my friends, the members of my community, and all people of color across our country are not affected by the affects of discrimination and racism in the future. I will do that with my vote, with my time, with whatever resources are available, and I urge you to do the same.

The use of **our** country throughout this piece is intentional. White supremacists will tell people of color that they don't belong here. That this is a country that is A) white and B) speaks English. Fuck them. Our country is diverse, many people speak multiple languages, many are not white; and through that, our country becomes stronger. In elementary school, when learning about American history, I was never proud of the wars. I was proud of the "cultural mixing pot" that we had been since the beginning. Unfortunately, that pot that I was taught was usually European flavored. 

It is my wish that my children, or those in their generation can go to school to learn about what makes America a wonderful nation -- the people of diverse backgrounds, of people from each continent, our support for those in need like we're seeing in times like these, and the ability to seek personal freedom. HOWEVER, I also want them to see the horrors -- the unfair history of slavery (see Triangle Trade), the use of politics to marginalize and resist the freedom of our people of color, the horrible treatment of those from the Middle East and Central America, our treatment of the LGBTQ+ and transgender communities, our addiction to money and greed, our treatment of drug addicts, our treatment of prisoners being that of pain and not rehabilitation. Should I go on? There'd be too much to write.

## Racial Inequality, as American as Apple Pie

I'm nearly pressed to say that police are a symptom and not just a cause, what's stopping me is a lack of appropriate background, and the thought that the statement subtracts from the protests currently going on. However, I am going to say that when we solve and control the police force, we are not yet done with rebalancing our equality in America. There are many more systems that have long been in place that have prevented the success of people of color, and have given rise to many racist individuals through our inability to properly address these issues. 

During my geography education, we've discussed racial inequality as a geographic problem, in some sense. Why? Many of the systems that are in place have forced it to become a geography-considered issue and not just a social or ethics issue. Let's take the case of [*redlining*](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Redlining#:~:text=In%20the%20United%20States%2C%20redlining,the%20selective%20raising%20of%20prices.) where those in power further marginalized black communities on racist pretenses. Through a cursory read of the Wikipedia page provided (provided as to show more sources and to give a concise summary more beneficial than an article on the topic), one can realize how the fundamental use of this was to provide a real-world outlet for racist beliefs and to futher supress the rights of black communities. This system further marginalized and reinforced racist beliefs through "facts and statistics" that measured the ability of certain communities to pay back loans and effectively own housing. Some causes for that belief could stem with the thought that members of a black community would have lower-income jobs, but doesn't that stem from racist beliefs that forced them out of applying to more "white-collar" jobs and from achieving in higher education? We can see that in the cases of [James Meredith](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/James_Meredith) and [Vivian Malone Jones](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Vivian_Malone_Jones) among many others. When attempting to rise against a white society, they were met with great resistance only on the basis of the color of their skin. How many had tried and failed to attend a college before them? How many now are unable to attend college due to rising costs of living and a minimum wage that forces them into an unbreakable cycle? 

Why should college be a choice, a *right* for me, but an opportunity that only comes through extreme circumstances for people of color?

When the system has been stacked against you for centuries, at some point you have to recognize that it's intentional. That it is through outside, white inteferance that constantly keeps our people of color in that place. Hence, I would like to recognize that in the wake of reducing and moving to solve police violence, we initiate a large scale reform on education and public policy. Through education, both in reform of content and funding, we can educate the next generation to fight and recognize the injustices placed upon our citizens for centuries. We can teach them how to be more empathetic, to rise against the teachings of parents who don't know any better, and to fight against an unfair system. We need to celebrate African culture and heritage, not destroy it. We need to become more inclusive and not assimilative. 

There must also be steps to solve governmental problems including [gerrymadering](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gerrymandering), and the further marginalization of colored communities. There have likely been many governmental policies that have disproportionately benefitted those in need that should be dismantled. 

The inequality in America today and since 1776 shouldn't be seen as solely perpetuated by police, but also as a system set in place by centuries of racist beliefs and ideologies brought into place in all facets of our government today. How can a system set in place that long ago, by those who owned slaves still be completely infalliable to this day? Some are going to see that statement as akin to me pissing on our flag, but don't see the irony in disrespecting it with their own U.S. Flag merchandise that they constantly parade. 

Our country was founded by those who felt slighted by a power who, fueled by greed and ignorance, sought to destroy the credibility of the people living where he was not. How can we stand by when those in our government are doing the same thing for which we declared independance from in 1776? 

> "When in the Course of human events, it becomes necessary for one people to dissolve the political bands which have connected them with another, and to assume among the powers of the earth, the separate and equal station to which the Laws of Nature and of Nature's God entitle them, a decent respect to the opinions of mankind requires that they should declare the causes which impel them to the separation.
> 
> We hold these truths to be self-evident, that all men are created equal, that they are endowed by their Creator with certain unalienable Rights, that among these are Life, Liberty and the pursuit of Happiness.--That to secure these rights, Governments are instituted among Men, deriving their just powers from the consent of the governed, --That whenever any Form of Government becomes destructive of these ends, it is the Right of the People to alter or to abolish it, and to institute new Government, laying its foundation on such principles and organizing its powers in such form, as to them shall seem most likely to effect their Safety and Happiness. "
> 
> \- Declaration of Independance, July 4th 1776

It's all right there. If you want to call yourself a patriot, but cannot acknowledge the strength and the power of this movement, you don't know the meaning of the foundation for which this country stands. And while that foundation is currently tarnished with the grafitti of racists and white supremacy, I hope that as a community, a country, we can rise against this injustice and preserve those very ideals for which our country was founded. This time, we need to truly be inclusive.

## In the End

Thank you for reading. Most of this piece comes from my heart and personal beliefs, and thus if I don't have all the surrounding knowledge about the Black Lives Matter movement, the history of people of color in America, and what is currently being done, please email me at carson.desotel@gmail.com to help me improve my claim. 

I'd also like to say that I've made a donation to the [Reclaim the Block](https://www.reclaimtheblock.org/home) organization so that they can push for preventative and proactive measures to crime in the Twin Cities areas such as funding for things that directly impact and improve the lives of our communities.